---
layout: post
title: Moving On
---

I am an idealist. I have an idealistic notion of how the world should work and I want to work to make this world a better place. Over the last few months this thought process has been though hell. All that I stand for, all that I care about has been disregarded left, right and center. At first, it felt like a phase that will pass. I genuinely believed things would change, would become better. Then the downward spiral began and I became desperate. Realization dawned - this is it, it's not going to change.

Having had to do things that go against my beliefs and ethics have challenged me to no end. I have had to find my own code of ethics, boundaries which I was unwilling to cross. Finding what's legal was the easy part. Finding what was right, was the tougher one. The discoveries have been through trial and error, but each discovery has been important, and has made me understand myself more.

Working with a code of ethics in this world is not easy. Some people don't share similar ethics, but most of the people just don't care about it. I care about the end result of what I do. I care about bringing a smile on the faces of people who use what I build and I strive to build things that people would love to use. Nothing is more sacred to me than the set of people who use what I build, and my whole set of ethics is built around the notion of doing what is best for the user. This is something that I would've taken for granted in any team I work for. I don't take it for granted anymore. Caring for the user is a mindset that needs to be carefully nurtured and treated as sacred. The moment anyone starts to break this, it disintegrates fast and this is something I have seen with my own eyes.

This last phase was one of the most challenging phases of my life. I could've stayed but I have decided to move on. Being given the choice between making the world better, and making money off an imperfect world, I would choose the former every single time. Every. Single. Time.
